RA 8293- Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines (1998)

GENERAL INFO
Effectivity: Jan 1, 1998

President: Fidel V. Ramos

Sponsor: Senator Raul S. Roco
Purpose: Protect creators, and technology transfer

COVERAGE

* Patents, Utility models, industrial designs, trademarks \& service marks, copyrights, trade secrets

PATENTS

* New inventions. Ownership belongs to kanina first nag file or depends on employment or contract conditions. Rights are to make, use sell and import their patent. Infringment is unauthorized use with criminal and civil penalties. Duration is 20 years. (Renewable)

UTILITY MODELS

* Technical innovations or improvement. 7 Years validity but not renewable.

INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS

* Covers product's appreance and aesthetics. 5 years validity and renewable up to 15 years total.

TRADEMARKS AND SERVICE MARKS

* It mkes a clear distinction between goods (trademarks) and services (service marks).
* Exclusions include, national flags, names that are immoral and deceptive and common terms. Rights are exclusive use to the trademark or service mark. Infringement is civil and criminal penalties. Durationg of validity is 10 years that is renewable.

COPYRIGHT

* creative shit. Ideas and government works (since that is public) is not protected by copyright. Rights included reproducing, adapting and performing the copyright in question. Limitation is fair use (sa ibang gustong gumamit ng copyright in question). Validity is a lifetime however there are special cases. For applied arts, 25 years, for broadcasts, 20 years.

UNFAIR COMPETITION

* Copying shit. Penalties include civil and criminal liability.

RELEVANCE TO CPET (Example)

1. Patents- New Devices
2. Utility Models- Minor engineering innovations.
3. Industrial Designs- Product casings, hardware designs
4. Trademarks- Branding of app software or hardware
5. Copy rights- diagrams, manuals ng software
6. Trade Secrets- Protection of source codes para maiwasan piracy.
7. Infringement Awareness- Avoid piracy, and patent violations.
